6.7	Iteration 7 – User Interface
6.7.1	Design
The final iteration in my game is the addition of UI. This is important for user experience, as well as the functionality of the game. The primary features I want to add within this iteration are a start and pause menu, allowing the user to both start a new game and quit to desktop within the start menu, and quit to the menu or desktop from the pause menu. 
I also want to add a HUD for the player’s health, so that the player can always see how close they are to dying and can adjust their playstyle accordingly to either be more aggressive if they have higher health, or more preservative if they have lower health and are closer to dying. I had originally considered having a bar system for this, with vertical red bars in the top left corner, each one representing one unit of the player’s health, however there is a large time restraint at this point in development, so I have opted for an alternative approach, with an integer value being displayed alongside “HP:” to tell the player the number of hits they can take before dying. This will have a value of 6 at the start of the game, however it will have no upper limit, meaning that if a player gets a health up upgrade, a higher value than 6 may be displayed.
The final part of the UI that I want to add is a banner telling the player what upgrade they received upon clearing each room. This will appear for a few seconds before disappearing. 
I plan on utilising scenes to accomplish these tasks. I will have to create an individual scene for each player upgrade, the start and pause menus, and the player health. Each scene will be designed using UI game objects held within the Unity engine, making UI creation much easier than having to draw it out manually. 
6.7.1.1	Start Menu
The start menu will have 2 buttons on it. One to start the game and load the player into the procedurally generated map, and one to close the game back to the desktop. Each button will be created using a button component on a panel containing the text, with a click event written into the backend of the button. For the start button, this click even will tell the game to load the player health scene, and the map scene. For the quit to desktop button, it will simply quit the application.
[INSERT FLOWCHART FOR START MENU]
6.7.1.2	Pause Menu
The pause menu will have one more option than the start menu. As the player will already be the in the game, they will not need an option to restart as there is already a feature in place where holding the R key for a few seconds will reload the map with a newly generated one. 
Once the scene has been created, I needed to think of a way to make the menu open and close whenever the player clicked the escape button. The best way to do this would simply be to add an if statement that is called every frame checking for an input of the escape key. 
